>>DAVID WILCOCK:
I'm David Wilcock.
And welcome to "Disclosure."
I recommend that you
have a good cappuccino,
a nice cup of coffee, or
some chocolate before you
watch this episode.
Make sure you've had good sleep,
that you're not too tired,
because this is a fast and
furious download with Laird
Scranton, part two,
where I grill him
and put his feet
to the fire using
the words of his own skeptics
to try to tear him apart
and see if he can
come back swinging.
I think what you're
going to find out
is that the results are
impressive to say the least.
Now, one of the things that
happens in this episode
that I want to give you a
little bit of backstory on
is when we mention Wallis Budge.
Now, EB Wallis Budge wrote
the defining standard book
on how to interpret
Egyptian hieroglyphics.
Now, what's so interesting
about Laird Scranton's work
is how he has shown that there
are remarkable similarities
between Egyptian words,
Hebrew words, and the words
of the Dogon and
that we also see
remarkable similarities
in Buddhism
and in Tibetan
traditions as well.
When we start to have these
core groups telling us
the same things
in the same words,
having the same cosmological
concepts, including the idea
that the universe
forms in pairs,
all these very
specific things, it
becomes an extremely
compelling notion.
Now, one of the things that the
haters most consistently try
to use to tear
apart Laird Scranton
is the work of Walter van
Beek, an anthropologist who
in just a few years tried to
get from the Dogon of Mali
the same things that it took
Griaule some 30 years to get.
Now, remember,
Griaule didn't hear
the true initiated
tradition until he'd
been there for 30 years.
It was only at the very
end of that 30 years
that they trusted him enough
to tell him the truth.
And they also revealed
that they are obligated
to either remain silent
or to tell a lie if you
ask a specific question that
they don't want to tell you
the answer for because you are
not at the level of initiation
to be given the answer.
So what do you think is going to
happen if Walter van Beek goes
to Mali, talks to the
Dogon in only a few years,
and tries to go after all
their deepest secrets?
They're not going to
tell him the truth.
They're going to
either remain silent,
which apparently
they did many times,
or they're going
to tell him a lie.
But what do the skeptics do?
They say, well, van
Beek's data doesn't
say that the Dogon said this.
It doesn't say that
they said that.
They're missing the point.
Since Griaule committed
to a much longer term
process of initiation
with these people
and he had the street
cred of working
with many other African tribes
as well, he got in there
and finally got the truth.
And the truth is the
meanings of the words
and the underlying
philosophy of what they said
and how Laird Scranton
has been able to draw
incredible correlations and
correspondences between what
he got once he was
initiated through Griaule
and what we see in Judaism, in
Egypt, in Buddhism, in Tibet.
It does appear that there was a
worldwide fount of information
disseminated through
many ancient cultures,
and we're going to hear
that in fact there have been
other universes before ours.
Apparently we are the
fourth rebooted version
of the universe and that
there's a total of seven
on an ascending spiral,
like the DNA helix almost.
Some very, very
fascinating stuff
that you're going to get here.
So again, I recommend you
have your thumb ready to go
for the rewind button.
Or you may end up
wanting to just
watch this whole thing
twice, because this
is information dense.
It goes fast.
There's no time for you to
zone off or fall asleep.
You've got to be
totally focused.
Are you ready?
Strap on your parachute.
Let's open the hatch
and take a dive.
Here we go.
Laird Scranton, part two,
here on "Disclosure."
Check it out.
All right, Laird.
Welcome back.
>>LAIRD SCRANTON: Thank you.
I'm glad to be back.
>>DAVID: Now, I have
done some reading on you.
>>SCRANTON: Uh-oh.
None of it's true.
>>DAVID: And I found
the hate-orade.
>>SCRANTON: Oh, really?
>>DAVID: Oh, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
You read the Amazon
reviews on your book,
and there are some really
spiteful, nasty things.
>>SCRANTON: Oh, especially
the Velikovsky book.
People are really invested
in not liking Velikovsky.
>>DAVID: So here's the deal.
The argument that the
skeptics are going to pose--
and as your work
becomes more popular,
you're going to be
dogged with this--
is they're saying
that you're just
looking at illiterate
paintings or illustrations.
And you're making these huge
conjectures, leaps in logic,
completely irrational
conclusions
based on scanty evidence.
And that you've only just
learned enough Hebrew
to make your conclusions.
And you've only just
learned enough Egypt
to make your conclusions.
So how do you answer
this scathing attack
that you're just making all
these arbitrary graspings
at straws to build a theory?
>>SCRANTON: OK.
First of all, the approach
I've taken from the start
is realizing that we're
dealing with subjects where
absolute proof is not possible.
What I'm trying to do is
demonstrate, not prove.
So when we talk about things
like structure of matter
with the Dogon, first,
the interpretation
begins with their statement
that their tradition
describes how their
tribal god created matter.
It's not my statement.
It's theirs.
>>DAVID: Right
>>SCRANTON: And all
I've done is I've
taken their statements about
matter and their drawings that
support those statements
and lay them side by side
with statements by modern
authorities on the same subject
and demonstrated a relationship
and let the reader look at it
and see the relationship.
And that doesn't insert
me into the process.
What that does is it simply
lays it side by side,
demonstrates that this
is likely to be true.
And that's the approach I've
taken at all levels of my book,
is to always prefer the
simple, overt demonstration
of something being true.
When it comes to
meanings of words,
the Dogon flatly define
what their words mean.
And it predictably agrees with
what Budge says the words mean.
And again, all I'm doing is
I'm taking a set of words
and comparing them
to a set of words
and demonstrating
that they match.
So the interpretation
comes out of that.
The interpretation comes
out of what they're
saying these symbols represent.
In terms of my approach to
Egyptian hieroglyphic language,
I'm starting with the very
simplest words, words that
involve a couple of glyphs.
The word for "week" is
extremely intuitive.
It's written with two
glyphs, a sun glyph that
represents the concept of a
day and the Egyptian number 10.
Symbolically, a child could
see there that says 10 days,
and it's known that the
Egyptians had a 10-day week.
That's the kind of level
that my interpretation is on.
I don't see there's a whole lot
of wiggle room for argument.
>>DAVID: OK.
I would also point out
that you have essentially
passed the alternative
science peer review
team because you've been heavily
endorsed by Graham Hancock.
You've had John Anthony
West write forewords
for two of your books.
>>SCRANTON: Yes.
>>DAVID: So what
do you feel is--
I may have asked
you this last time,
but maybe I'll get a
different answer now.
What do you feel is the most
compelling proof that you have
that there was a
primordial civilization
responsible for all this
stuff that ferreted out
in different places?
>>SCRANTON: Because my standard
is that interpretations begin
with overt statements on
the parts of the cultures,
every ancient
culture that I have
looked at that has preserved the
same set of symbols and myths
are telling us the same thing.
They're not saying we learned
agriculture by ourselves.
It was a great development
of our society.
We trumpet that as
our great achievement.
They're saying, someone who
knew more about these things
than we did taught
us how to be farmers.
Someone who knew
more than we did
provided us with these symbols.
Even in Ancient
Egypt, they flatly
say their hieroglyphic
language was given to them.
Now, because they're all
saying the same thing,
my standard says that I need
to take that at face value.
I could say something else, and
people say, well, why don't you
attribute this to
some other source?
And my answer is, find me a
culture that thinks it happened
that way, and we'll look at it.
>>DAVID: That's fascinating.
With the immersion into
the Hebrew language,
the Old Testament would
seem to only backdate
to a certain point.
So would you say that the
penetration into Hebrew
is a more recent phenomenon
of these words appearing
or reappearing?
>>SCRANTON: No.
I think they're contemporaneous.
As I said, Budge-- who is an
authority on Egyptian language
that is not well respected
by modern egyptologists
but who's dictionary
I use anyway.
The reason I use it is
because it predictably
agrees with what the Dogon say.
I happen to have the luxury of
having an independent source
to compare it to, and
it's a set of words
that are not just random words.
It's a system of words.
And so to my way of thinking,
when an egyptologist tells
me, well, Budge could barely
even read the hieroglyphs,
he's flatly wrong
about the language,
my answer is, he can't be
flatly wrong about the language
in a way that predictably
agrees with the Dogon.
That can't happen.
So my independent source
has all the same words
with the same meanings,
some of the same symbols.
To the extent that that
agrees with what Budge says,
I have to conclude Budge must
be right, or substantially right
at least about the
cosmological words.
>>DAVID: You also--
>>SCRANTON: Now, to answer
your question about the Hebrew
words, Budge uses
Hebrew words as examples
to explain pronunciations and
meanings of various words.
Many of the Dogon words
are also Egyptian words
and Hebrew words.
And so the suggestion is that
all three of those languages
were contemporaneous
in their origin.
>>DAVID: Well, now--
>>SCRANTON: Another
example-- I'm
sorry to interrupt
you again-- is
one of the characteristics
of these very
early symbolic languages
and one of the things
that tells us that
they were symbolic
is they don't represent the
vowel sounds originally.
Now, if you were going to
have a phonetic language,
it would be absolutely crazy
not to find the vowel sounds.
The vowel sounds are essential.
You change two vowel
sounds in English,
as they do in New Zealand,
and you render the language
almost indistinguishable.
So if it was frenetic, you
would need the vowel sounds.
So one of the character
traits that shows us
we have the same
system at play is
you have a symbolic language
that has no vowel sounds,
and that's where Hebrew sat.
>>DAVID: You were saying before
that the Dogon-- you're not
making wild conjectures when
you're looking at, for example,
the model of the atom.
They're saying, this
is what matter is.
They draw a diagram of it.
The diagram corresponds
to what we see.
>>SCRANTON: Right.
>>DAVID: Does that
same logic apply
to your genetic model
regarding X and Y
chromosomes and all that?
>>SCRANTON: Yes, it does.
>>DAVID: OK.
Could you explain
that in detail for us?
>>SCRANTON: OK.
There was a chapter in
my first book, which
is called "The
Science of the Dogon,"
that talks about how the
biological symbolism plays out.
In the Dogon system,
we have three themes.
We have a theme of the
creation of the universe,
a theme of the
creation of matter,
and a theme of the
creation of life.
And they use a
single set of symbols
to simultaneously
represent all three themes.
That's the reason why
some of these symbols
are so hard to interpret.
Before you give
an interpretation,
you have to first state which
theme am I talking about?
The Dogon diagrams, as
they're explaining the stages,
they again get-- these are
pictures they draw on the sand.
The picture is a very
presentable and credible
representation of the process
of mitosis, a cell splitting.
They understand
how a gene works.
They understand what
the relationship
is between a fertilized egg
and the genetic process.
And they understand how
the process evolves up
to an expanding womb, which
they compare to mass expanding
in relation to matter.
Part of the reason that
you have the symbol
of the cosmogonic egg
in all these cultures
is because since an
egg is the starting
point for biological
reproduction
and they want parallelism
in these themes,
they also use an egg to
represent the starting point
of the universe.
>>DAVID: Well, that is a very
interesting concept, the idea
that biology is an intrinsic
aspect of the universe itself
that it's built into the
origin of the universe.
>>SCRANTON: It actually
goes much deeper than that.
It goes down to
what the Dogon say
the structure of the
formation of the universes is.
From their conception-- and
this is supported by an outlook
by Buddhism, it's
there in Kabbalism,
there are other references
in other cultures.
But in the Dogon conception,
universes emerge in pairs.
And ours is the
fourth of a series
of seven pairs of universes
that evolve as a helix.
And that helix is a
functional equivalent,
or a least a conceptual
equivalent, to DNA.
And if they're right, then
life is an inherent foundation
of the universe.
>>DAVID: That's fascinating.
You obviously went back to
Griaule and Dieterlen and some
of the sources that were in
Robert Temple's book, "Sirius
Mystery."
If somebody wanted
to independently try
to verify what you're
saying for themselves,
what would be the best way for
them to go about doing that?
>>SCRANTON: OK.
Anything that Griaule and
Dieterlen wrote is useful.
My main references for
the Dogon information
are their finished
anthropological study
of the Dogon tribe, which
is called "The Pale Fox."
These were all originally
written in French,
so they have different
titles in French.
"The Pale Fox" is the
anthropological study
that defines the details
of their religion.
There's a second work,
a very short book
called "Conversations
with Ogotemmeli."
And it describes-- it's actually
a diary of Griaule's initiation
in the tradition, 33 days
he spent with a Dogon priest
asking the innermost
questions and getting
answers and explanations for
how this entire system works.
The third critical piece
from the Dogon side
is a French Dogon
dictionary that
was written by Griaule's
adult daughter who was
with him on the expeditions.
It's called "The
Dogon Dictionary,"
"Dictionnaire Dogon."
And it's extremely helpful.
Many times she'll give
explanations that are not even
in the anthropological
study about why
a word means what it means.
And very often those
explanations-- and she'll
identify as an
archaic form words
that look to me like archaic
forms in Budge's dictionary,
or that Budge says are archaic.
So you have
cross-comparison there.
>>DAVID: Well, now, some
of the haters, I've read,
said that the exoteric
interpretation that most people
get if you go and
talk to the Dogon
doesn't support the esoteric
interpretations that you're
giving, and therefore that you
are drawing off of unproven
and dubious sources in
terms of the other--
so could you talk about
that a little bit?
>>SCRANTON: Sure.
Griaule describes the tradition
as an esoteric tradition
in the ancient sense.
And the way he says it
works is if I'm an initiate
and you're a priest, and I
ask you a question that's
appropriate to my
initiated status,
you are obligated to
give me an honest answer.
However, if I ask
you a question,
or any other person asks
you a question, that's
inappropriate to
their initiate status,
you're obligated to either
remain silent or to lie.
So in the 1980s, a
Belgian anthropologist
named Walter van Beek took
a team into Dogon country
to re-study what
Griaule had study.
Now, there are
some unusual things
about his choice to do that.
First of all, it's not
unusual to re-study
some aspect of another
anthropologist's work.
It's extremely rare
on a short time frame
to try to re-study 30 years
of an anthropologist's work.
>>DAVID: He was
there for 30 years?
>>SCRANTON: Griaule was.
van Beek was there
for only a few years.
>>DAVID: Wow.
>>SCRANTON: OK.
The second thing is that
van Beek's specialty prior
to this study was not religion.
It was ecology.
So van Beek took a team
into Dogon country,
understanding that Griaule
described this tradition
as a closely held secret,
went in and started
asking leading questions
about the cosmology,
and was met with silence or
with answers that flatly denied
that they knew anything about
it, which is what Griaule said
was going to happen.
>>DAVID: Yeah.
And you go in there with pot
bellies and white tube socks
and shorts and a fanny
pack on the front,
they're not necessarily
going to trust you.
>>SCRANTON: So van Beek declared
the system to be a fabrication.
His first generous outlook
was that the Dogon priests
had fabricated
answers to satisfy
Griaule's persistent questions.
That's very difficult
to disprove.
But more damningly,
there's a central symbol
of this tradition.
It's an aligned shrine
called the Dogon granary
that van Beek claimed to be a
chimera-- basically a mirage--
known only to Griaule.
Essentially, he falls
short of saying this
is something Griaule made up.
It doesn't exist, he said.
Unfortunately, van Beek, like
60 years of other researchers,
missed a critical point.
And that is that this granary is
a matching form for a Buddhist
stupa.
And the cosmology
that Griaule said
goes with the granary
is a point for point
match for the cosmology that
goes with a Buddhist stupa.
Now, a Buddhist stupa exists
all across Asia and India,
is a well documented form,
and the cosmology that
goes with it is a known,
accepted, legitimate cosmology.
So knowing that, van Beek's
argument falls to the ground.
This is legitimate cosmology.
And van Beek simply failed
to penetrate the tradition.
I compare it to going to a
college campus on parents
weekend and coming
away with no evidence
of alcohol or drug use.
>>DAVID: Well, I would have been
guilty as charged myself back
then, but that was another time.
So van Beek is
essentially thinking
that he can just sort
of crash in the gate
and just be given the
deepest, innermost
secrets of a secret society.
>>SCRANTON: Right.
Although I think that there
may have been an agenda there.
Given his background and
given the controversy that
surrounded the Dogon system
and Griaule's study of them,
I think there may have
been an initial agenda
to discredit this.
And he did a very good
job of trying to do that,
but they missed
a critical point.
Now, in fairness to van
Beek, when I discovered this,
I had been in communication
with van Beek by email.
And I offered to co-report my
finding in the academic journal
that he edited called Current
Anthropology, because I thought
that was the best way
of allowing him to save
some face in the light of
the piece of information
that he missed.
And he never
answered that offer.
So then I started approaching
other academic journals,
explained to them what
I had, that I wanted
to write a short piece
outlining the identity
between the Buddhist
and the Dogon system.
And Anthropology News, another
anthropological journal
that's published with the
University of Chicago,
agreed on the
condition that I not
make it an attack
piece against van Beek.
And so in April of 2007,
I published that article.
And that, to my knowledge,
is the last word
on the question of
whether the Dogon
cosmology is legitimate or not.
>>DAVID: Well, now, the
typical hater is going to say,
OK, you think that this granary
and this stupa are the same.
You've grabbed one
little data point,
and you've made this
huge conjecture, which
is that Buddhism and
the Dogon in Mali
are part of a
primordial civilization.
So do you have
other linkage points
between Buddhism and the Dogon?
>>SCRANTON: OK, first
of all, in both systems,
the aligned shrine is considered
to be a grand mnemonic
for the entire system.
If you've got that, you've
got the entire cosmology
in a culture.
They evoke the same series of
shapes in the same sequence
with the same symbolism assigned
to them, aligned the same way,
set out with the
same dimensions.
And they only differ
in the very final stage
of the creation of this form.
The Dogon begin with
a round base and end
with a square roof.
The Buddhist stupa
begins with a round base,
but they square it
at the final stage
and then end up
with a round roof.
That's really the only
difference in the form.
The cosmology, when I
was trying to understand
the relationship
between those two forms,
I settled on as my
source a book called
"The Symbolism of the Stupa,"
written by Adrian Snodgrass.
He's a professor
from the University
of West Sydney, Australia.
He's considered to be a
leading worldwide source
on Buddhist architecture
and symbolism.
And what I did was I simply
read his book and sort
of ticked off the points of
agreement between the two--
all the same symbolic
elements laid out
in the same way understood
in the same way.
As a matter of
fact, any time I'm
in doubt about some
new concept I'm
not familiar with that
relates to the systems,
I cross-compare
what Snodgrass says
to what the Dogon says to
what the Egyptians say and try
to triangulate in on a meaning.
I even look at what the symbols
of the Egyptian words say.
>>DAVID: I'm going to make a
very mundane statement here,
but the stupa is not just
some offshoot, some side
note of Buddhism.
>>SCRANTON: No.
It's a starting point.
As a matter of fact,
if you were an initiate
in this tradition,
the first thing
they teach you is
how to align a stupa.
And the reason they do that is
because ostensibly the purpose
of this, the
civilizing plan that
is associated with
this tradition,
was to teach us agriculture.
And in order to do that,
one of the prerequisites
was we needed to be
able to tell time.
And so this base
plan of these shrines
involves-- you place
a stick in the ground
and measure a circle
around that stick.
And essentially, that's
the shape of a sundial.
If you have that much, you can
track the hours of the day,
you know how long the day
is, you know what time of day
it is.
Now, if every morning
you get up in the morning
and mark the longest
shadow of the day
at the point where it crosses
the circle and then at night
mark the longest
shadow of the day
where it crosses the
circle, those two points
define an east-west
aligned line that
through the course of the
year move back and forth
across the circle.
And on the equinoxes, it
passes through the stick.
And then it moves
continually farther away
till the next solstice
and then back.
So now the same figure that lets
you tell the hours of the day
also lets you track the
seasons of the year.
And you have the tool you
need to be able to lay out
an agricultural calendar.
>>DAVID: I know that John
Anthony West actually
wrote the forewords
to two of your books.
And I'm thinking here about
a very interesting summary
thought, which is
I've done episodes
on the Tibetan practice
of the rainbow body,
the idea of an ascension into
an immortal state, a light body
state.
And when their bodies
transform into light
and it leaves behind a
little ashy figurine,
there's no skeleton
anymore, they'll
put those in the stupa,
the little figurine.
Now, John, in interviews
that I did with him,
said that the whole basis of
the ancient, ancient Egyptian
teachings is all
about immortality.
So do you see this
similar aspiration
to light body appearing
in the Dogon system?
>>SCRANTON: Yes.
It's a complicated answer.
When you get to the bottom
of the tradition, all
of the themes of this
ancient cosmology end
up being metaphors for the
hermetic phrase as above,
so below-- even
the idea, OK, they
have the figure of a circle
associated with the heavens,
a square associated
with the Earth--
we're talking about
macrocosm and microcosm--
the idea of reconciling
a circle with a square,
squaring the circle is
a metaphor for as above,
so below.
But when you take that
out in the ever larger--
this cosmology involves ever
larger steps or ever decreasing
steps.
The Dogon say it's like peeling
back the skins on an onion,
that every time you think
you're done with one level,
there's another level.
So as you move upward with this,
that same symbolism ultimately
relates to these universes
that form in pairs.
And the pairs are one is
non-material in nature,
the other is material in nature.
The difference, the way
the Dogon describe it,
I compare to sushi.
It's a question of at what point
in the process membranes form.
And according to the
Dogon, that stage
in the formation of our
universe came out of sequence
and caused our universe to be
material as opposed to not.
With sushi, you have
the kind of sushi
where the seaweed's
wrapped up coiled
inside the sushi
and the kind where
it's wrapped around the
outside of the sushi.
That's the essential
difference between the two.
But with these pairs of
universes, one non-material
and one material, the idea
is the non-material side
can see the material side,
but we can't see back.
That's what the Dogon masks
are all about, one side being
able to see, the other one not.
And one of the upshots
of the tradition
is to try to make us aware
of the non-material side,
to try to make us aware of
what our true relationship
to the whole creation
structure is.
Because in the modern
view, we see ourselves
as the top of the chain.
But when you know the correct
view according to the Dogon,
we're not the top of the chain.
We're just another step upwards.
There are things
that go on, that
continue on upwards from us.
And when we perceive
ourselves as just
being another step
on the chain, it's
a whole different outlook on
how what our proper role is.
>>DAVID: That's amazing.
Do you think that they have
a set of spiritual teachings
that were intended to help their
initiates reach this rainbow
body?
>>SCRANTON: The tradition does.
The Dogon may, but it's
not emphasized by Griaule.
Concepts of ascension, which
is the idea in Buddhism
that you're going to
attain enlightenment
over the course
of your lifetime,
you're turning this
cosmology inward
and talking about personal
ascension considered to rise
from the center of
your body upward,
through the top of your head
or the third eye or whatever,
that's a concept that relates to
the formation of matter, which
is also-- those stages are
also considered extension.
And the formation of
the universe, there
are stages that are also
considered to be ascension.
You have parallelism
all the way down,
and parallelism sort
of deep, because you're
talking about
personal stuff, you're
things in the world
and things in the universe and
things beyond the universe.
So yes, I think that's
built into the system.
It's not emphasized in Griaule
and Dieterlen's studies.
>>DAVID: How long did it
take Griaule and Dieterlen
to actually start to get the
esoteric portion of the Dogon
teaching?
>>SCRANTON: They
thought they had it
when they were writing
in the early 1950s,
but they didn't finally
get it until the very end.
I can see from
articles they wrote,
say, in 1952 that the
way they formulated it
is significantly different
than the way they formulated it
in the final study.
And those are
critical differences.
If you understand
it the earlier way,
you're going to miss the points,
because the priests still
had not given Griaule the
actual real stuff until he
was fully initiated.
And he hadn't had permission
yet to be initiated.
>>DAVID: And this essentially
took almost 30 years.
>>SCRANTON: It took 30 years.
But that's no different
than the Greek priests who
say they went to Egypt
for 20 or 30 years
to study before they
came back and wrote
their philosophical
or poetic treatises.
>>DAVID: Sure.
Well, Laird, you've
impressed me.
I think your work is phenomenal.
And I'm really glad to
have you on the show.
So thank you for being here.
>>SCRANTON: Thank you very much.
>>DAVID: I love where we
ended on this interview
because it's the distinct
suggestion that even
though Griaule didn't
really get into it too much,
the ultimate point of what
the Dogon were being taught
was the notion of ascension.
These higher beings,
these extraterrestrials
allegedly from Sirius,
came here to give us
a cosmology that ultimately
liberates the soul from needing
to reincarnate in
this world of flesh,
coming back in each time,
forgetting who we are,
forgetting what we're
supposed to be doing here,
and having to make mistakes
and accrue karma and work off
karma and come back and be
saying you're sorry over
and over again and having to be
tortured because you tortured
other people-- they want
us to break free of that.
And there is a point
at which we learn
what the true essence
of the universe is,
and we break free
from the shackles
of having to reincarnate here.
And we graduate into
becoming light beings
and truly grasping our
essence as immortal souls.
Do you think maybe
Walter van Beek
had an agenda if in
fact Scranton comes out
with information that
is very compelling that
clearly contradicts his view?
And van Beek completely refused
to publish Scranton's work
in his own academic
journal, and Scranton then
had to go to others
who were also
academics in the same
field and they were
able to be more open-minded?
Yes, it's entirely possible
that somebody like van Beek
may have been paid to discredit
the work of Laird Scranton.
There is a force that doesn't
want us to know the truth, that
doesn't want us to
know what's going on
and wants to keep the blanket
over this so that we're all
sleeping in that consensus,
warm blanket of reality that
says everything's fine.
And civilization
really began in Sumer
and it didn't start to get
anywhere until Ancient Greece,
and it's all had
a nice progression
from hunter-gatherers
up to the present day.
It's not true.
Civilization had
attained a high peak,
and then it completely
collapsed in this great flood.
And only a few of the
remnants survived.
And the Dogon gone apparently
inherited some of the attempts
by extraterrestrials
to rebuild our society
and give us a working spiritual
philosophy that we could
use as the seeds of that new
era that we are now reaching
the fruition of as we head
into something completely
unexpected, which we are
exploring and co-creating here
on "Disclosure."
Now, in the next
episode, I'm going
to be talking to Graham Hancock.
And this is where we really get
into the Ark of the Covenant
in even more detail, describing
the incredible properties
of this super-weapon that
is extensively referenced
in the Old Testament, that
apparently had the ability
to take entire walls, like
in the case of the wall
of Jericho, and turn those
stones into something so soft
that they just
melted right down.
We're also going to get into
the equally fascinating category
of the tunneling under
the Giza Plateau.
These secret tunnels--
what do they contain?
What are the mysteries that
they might have in store for us?
That's coming up next
time on "Disclosure."
I'm your host, David Wilcock.
And I thank you for watching.